The primary purpose of code review is to make sure that the overall code health of Google’s code base is improving over time. All of the tools and processes of code review are designed to this end.
In order to accomplish this, a series of trade-offs have to be balanced.
First, developers must be able to make progress on their tasks. If you never submit an improvement to the codebase, then the codebase never improves. Also, if a reviewer makes it very difficult for any change to go in, then developers are disincentivized to make improvements in the future.
On the other hand, it is the duty of the reviewer to make sure that each CL is of such a quality that the overall code health of their codebase is not decreasing as time goes on. This can be tricky, because often, codebases degrade through small decreases in code health over time, especially when a team is under significant time constraints and they feel that they have to take shortcuts in order to accomplish their goals.
Also, a reviewer has ownership and responsibility over the code they are reviewing. They want to ensure that the codebase stays consistent, maintainable, and all of the other things mentioned in “What to look for in a code review.”
Thus, we get the following rule as the standard we expect in code reviews:
In general, reviewers should favor approving a CL once it is in a state where it definitely improves the overall code health of the system being worked on, even if the CL isn’t perfect.
That is the senior principle among all of the code review guidelines.
There are limitations to this, of course. For example, if a CL adds a feature that the reviewer doesn’t want in their system, then the reviewer can certainly deny approval even if the code is well-designed.
A key point here is that there is no such thing as “perfect” code—there is only better code. Reviewers should not require the author to polish every tiny piece of a CL before granting approval. Rather, the reviewer should balance out the need to make forward progress compared to the importance of the changes they are suggesting. Instead of seeking perfection, what a reviewer should seek is continuous improvement. A CL that, as a whole, improves the maintainability, readability, and understandability of the system shouldn’t be delayed for days or weeks because it isn’t “perfect.”
Reviewers should always feel free to leave comments expressing that something could be better, but if it’s not very important, prefix it with something like “Nit: “ to let the author know that it’s just a point of polish that they could choose to ignore.
Note: Nothing in this document justifies checking in CLs that definitely worsen the overall code health of the system. The only time you would do that would be in an emergency.
Code review can have an important function of teaching developers something new about a language, a framework, or general software design principles. It’s always fine to leave comments that help a developer learn something new. Sharing knowledge is part of improving the code health of a system over time. Just keep in mind that if your comment is purely educational, but not critical to meeting the standards described in this document, prefix it with “Nit: “ or otherwise indicate that it’s not mandatory for the author to resolve it in this CL.
Technical facts and data overrule opinions and personal preferences.
On matters of style, the style guide is the absolute authority. Any purely style point (whitespace, etc.) that is not in the style guide is a matter of personal preference. The style should be consistent with what is there. If there is no previous style, accept the author’s.
Aspects of software design are almost never a pure style issue or just a personal preference. They are based on underlying principles and should be weighed on those principles, not simply by personal opinion. Sometimes there are a few valid options. If the author can demonstrate (either through data or based on solid engineering principles) that several approaches are equally valid, then the reviewer should accept the preference of the author. Otherwise the choice is dictated by standard principles of software design.
If no other rule applies, then the reviewer may ask the author to be consistent with what is in the current codebase, as long as that doesn’t worsen the overall code health of the system.
In any conflict on a code review, the first step should always be for the developer and reviewer to try to come to consensus, based on the contents of this document and the other documents in The CL Author’s Guide and this Reviewer Guide.
When coming to consensus becomes especially difficult, it can help to have a face-to-face meeting or a video conference between the reviewer and the author, instead of just trying to resolve the conflict through code review comments. (If you do this, though, make sure to record the results of the discussion as a comment on the CL, for future readers.)
If that doesn’t resolve the situation, the most common way to resolve it would be to escalate. Often the escalation path is to a broader team discussion, having a Technical Lead weigh in, asking for a decision from a maintainer of the code, or asking an Eng Manager to help out. Don’t let a CL sit around because the author and the reviewer can’t come to an agreement.

Note: Always make sure to take into account The Standard of Code Review when considering each of these points.
The most important thing to cover in a review is the overall design of the CL. Do the interactions of various pieces of code in the CL make sense? Does this change belong in your codebase, or in a library? Does it integrate well with the rest of your system? Is now a good time to add this functionality?
Does this CL do what the developer intended? Is what the developer intended good for the users of this code? The “users” are usually both end-users (when they are affected by the change) and developers (who will have to “use” this code in the future).
Mostly, we expect developers to test CLs well-enough that they work correctly by the time they get to code review. However, as the reviewer you should still be thinking about edge cases, looking for concurrency problems, trying to think like a user, and making sure that there are no bugs that you see just by reading the code.
You can validate the CL if you want—the time when it’s most important for a reviewer to check a CL’s behavior is when it has a user-facing impact, such as a UI change. It’s hard to understand how some changes will impact a user when you’re just reading the code. For changes like that, you can have the developer give you a demo of the functionality if it’s too inconvenient to patch in the CL and try it yourself.
Another time when it’s particularly important to think about functionality during a code review is if there is some sort of parallel programming going on in the CL that could theoretically cause deadlocks or race conditions. These sorts of issues are very hard to detect by just running the code and usually need somebody (both the developer and the reviewer) to think through them carefully to be sure that problems aren’t being introduced. (Note that this is also a good reason not to use concurrency models where race conditions or deadlocks are possible—it can make it very complex to do code reviews or understand the code.)
Is the CL more complex than it should be? Check this at every level of the CL—are individual lines too complex? Are functions too complex? Are classes too complex? “Too complex” usually means “can’t be understood quickly by code readers.” It can also mean “developers are likely to introduce bugs when they try to call or modify this code.”
A particular type of complexity is over-engineering, where developers have made the code more generic than it needs to be, or added functionality that isn’t presently needed by the system. Reviewers should be especially vigilant about over-engineering. Encourage developers to solve the problem they know needs to be solved now, not the problem that the developer speculates might need to be solved in the future. The future problem should be solved once it arrives and you can see its actual shape and requirements in the physical universe.
Ask for unit, integration, or end-to-end tests as appropriate for the change. In general, tests should be added in the same CL as the production code unless the CL is handling an emergency.
Make sure that the tests in the CL are correct, sensible, and useful. Tests do not test themselves, and we rarely write tests for our tests—a human must ensure that tests are valid.
Will the tests actually fail when the code is broken? If the code changes beneath them, will they start producing false positives? Does each test make simple and useful assertions? Are the tests separated appropriately between different test methods?
Remember that tests are also code that has to be maintained. Don’t accept complexity in tests just because they aren’t part of the main binary.
Did the developer pick good names for everything? A good name is long enough to fully communicate what the item is or does, without being so long that it becomes hard to read.
Did the developer write clear comments in understandable English? Are all of the comments actually necessary? Usually comments are useful when they explain why some code exists, and should not be explaining what some code is doing. If the code isn’t clear enough to explain itself, then the code should be made simpler. There are some exceptions (regular expressions and complex algorithms often benefit greatly from comments that explain what they’re doing, for example) but mostly comments are for information that the code itself can’t possibly contain, like the reasoning behind a decision.
It can also be helpful to look at comments that were there before this CL. Maybe there is a TODO that can be removed now, a comment advising against this change being made, etc.
Note that comments are different from documentation of classes, modules, or functions, which should instead express the purpose of a piece of code, how it should be used, and how it behaves when used.
We have style guides at Google for all of our major languages, and even for most of the minor languages. Make sure the CL follows the appropriate style guides.
If you want to improve some style point that isn’t in the style guide, prefix your comment with “Nit:” to let the developer know that it’s a nitpick that you think would improve the code but isn’t mandatory. Don’t block CLs from being submitted based only on personal style preferences.
The author of the CL should not include major style changes combined with other changes. It makes it hard to see what is being changed in the CL, makes merges and rollbacks more complex, and causes other problems. For example, if the author wants to reformat the whole file, have them send you just the reformatting as one CL, and then send another CL with their functional changes after that.
What if the existing code is inconsistent with the style guide? Per our code review principles, the style guide is the absolute authority: if something is required by the style guide, the CL should follow the guidelines.
In some cases, the style guide makes recommendations rather than declaring requirements. In these cases, it’s a judgment call whether the new code should be consistent with the recommendations or the surrounding code. Bias towards following the style guide unless the local inconsistency would be too confusing.
If no other rule applies, the author should maintain consistency with the existing code.
Either way, encourage the author to file a bug and add a TODO for cleaning up existing code.
If a CL changes how users build, test, interact with, or release code, check to see that it also updates associated documentation, including READMEs, g3doc pages, and any generated reference docs. If the CL deletes or deprecates code, consider whether the documentation should also be deleted. If documentation is missing, ask for it.
In the general case, look at every line of code that you have been assigned to review. Some things like data files, generated code, or large data structures you can scan over sometimes, but don’t scan over a human-written class, function, or block of code and assume that what’s inside of it is okay. Obviously some code deserves more careful scrutiny than other code—that’s a judgment call that you have to make—but you should at least be sure that you understand what all the code is doing.
If it’s too hard for you to read the code and this is slowing down the review, then you should let the developer know that and wait for them to clarify it before you try to review it. At Google, we hire great software engineers, and you are one of them. If you can’t understand the code, it’s very likely that other developers won’t either. So you’re also helping future developers understand this code, when you ask the developer to clarify it.
If you understand the code but you don’t feel qualified to do some part of the review, make sure there is a reviewer on the CL who is qualified, particularly for complex issues such as privacy, security, concurrency, accessibility, internationalization, etc.
What if it doesn’t make sense for you to review every line? For example, you are one of multiple reviewers on a CL and may be asked:
In these cases, note in a comment which parts you reviewed. Prefer giving LGTM with comments .
If you instead wish to grant LGTM after confirming that other reviewers have reviewed other parts of the CL, note this explicitly in a comment to set expectations. Aim to respond quickly once the CL has reached the desired state.
It is often helpful to look at the CL in a broad context. Usually the code review tool will only show you a few lines of code around the parts that are being changed. Sometimes you have to look at the whole file to be sure that the change actually makes sense. For example, you might see only four new lines being added, but when you look at the whole file, you see those four lines are in a 50-line method that now really needs to be broken up into smaller methods.
It’s also useful to think about the CL in the context of the system as a whole. Is this CL improving the code health of the system or is it making the whole system more complex, less tested, etc.? Don’t accept CLs that degrade the code health of the system. Most systems become complex through many small changes that add up, so it’s important to prevent even small complexities in new changes.
If you see something nice in the CL, tell the developer, especially when they addressed one of your comments in a great way. Code reviews often just focus on mistakes, but they should offer encouragement and appreciation for good practices, as well. It’s sometimes even more valuable, in terms of mentoring, to tell a developer what they did right than to tell them what they did wrong.
In doing a code review, you should make sure that:
Make sure to review every line of code you’ve been asked to review, look at the context, make sure you’re improving code health, and compliment developers on good things that they do.

In general, it is important to be courteous and respectful while also being very clear and helpful to the developer whose code you are reviewing. One way to do this is to be sure that you are always making comments about the code and never making comments about the developer. You don’t always have to follow this practice, but you should definitely use it when saying something that might otherwise be upsetting or contentious. For example:
Bad: “Why did you use threads here when there’s obviously no benefit to be gained from concurrency?”
Good: “The concurrency model here is adding complexity to the system without any actual performance benefit that I can see. Because there’s no performance benefit, it’s best for this code to be single-threaded instead of using multiple threads.”
One thing you’ll notice about the “good” example from above is that it helps the developer understand why you are making your comment. You don’t always need to include this information in your review comments, but sometimes it’s appropriate to give a bit more explanation around your intent, the best practice you’re following, or how your suggestion improves code health.
In general it is the developer’s responsibility to fix a CL, not the reviewer’s. You are not required to do detailed design of a solution or write code for the developer.
This doesn’t mean the reviewer should be unhelpful, though. In general you should strike an appropriate balance between pointing out problems and providing direct guidance. Pointing out problems and letting the developer make a decision often helps the developer learn, and makes it easier to do code reviews. It also can result in a better solution, because the developer is closer to the code than the reviewer is.
However, sometimes direct instructions, suggestions, or even code are more helpful. The primary goal of code review is to get the best CL possible. A secondary goal is improving the skills of developers so that they require less and less review over time.
Remember that people learn from reinforcement of what they are doing well and not just what they could do better. If you see things you like in the CL, comment on those too! Examples: developer cleaned up a messy algorithm, added exemplary test coverage, or you as the reviewer learned something from the CL. Just as with all comments, include why you liked something, further encouraging the developer to continue good practices.
Consider labeling the severity of your comments, differentiating required changes from guidelines or suggestions.
Here are some examples:
Nit: This is a minor thing. Technically you should do it, but it won’t hugely impact things.
Optional (or Consider): I think this may be a good idea, but it’s not strictly required.
FYI: I don’t expect you to do this in this CL, but you may find this interesting to think about for the future.
This makes review intent explicit and helps authors prioritize the importance of various comments. It also helps avoid misunderstandings; for example, without comment labels, authors may interpret all comments as mandatory, even if some comments are merely intended to be informational or optional.
If you ask a developer to explain a piece of code that you don’t understand, that should usually result in them rewriting the code more clearly. Occasionally, adding a comment in the code is also an appropriate response, as long as it’s not just explaining overly complex code.
Explanations written only in the code review tool are not helpful to future code readers. They are acceptable only in a few circumstances, such as when you are reviewing an area you are not very familiar with and the developer explains something that normal readers of the code would have already known.